---
title: 'Paper Reading 1: Analysis'
date: 2021-06-13
permalink: /posts/2021/06/blog-post-2/
tags:
  - cool posts
  - category1
  - category2
---

**Concepts**: Clustered Standard Errors \
**Methods**: 

### Gender Peer Effects on Students’ Academic and Noncognitive Outcomes: Evidence and Mechanisms
Jie Gong, Yi Lu and Hong Song, 2019, _Journal of Human Resources_

### Empirical analysis:
$Y_{ics}=\alpha+\beta_{1}Peerfem_{-ics}+\beta_{2}Female_{ics}+\phi X_{ics}+ \tau W_{cs}+\lambda_{sg}+\epsilon_{ics}$
- $Y_{ics}$: Measures of academic and noncognitive outcomes for student i in class c of school s
- $Peerfem_{ics}$: Proportion of females in i’s class, excluding i; 
- $Female_{ics}$: Binary. whether i is female; 
- $X_{ics}$: i’s predetermined characteristics and teacher controls; 
- $W_{cs}$: Peers’ ability controls, including baseline academic ability for male and female peer.
- $\lambda_{sg}$: school-grade fixed effect; 

We cluster standard errors at the class level, accounting for correlation in outcomes for students in the same class.
- **Clustered standard errors**: Estimate the standard error of a regression parameter in settings where observations may be subdivided into smaller-sized groups ("clusters") and where the treatment assignment is correlated within each group. It's useful when <ins>treatment is assigned at the level of a cluster instead of at the individual level</ins>. 
  - E.g., we want to discover whether a teaching technique improves student test scores. We assign teachers in "treated" classrooms to try new technique, while leaving "control" classrooms unaffected. When analyzing results, we want to keep data at the student level (However, classical SE are inappropriate because student test scores within each class are not independently distributed. Instead, students in classes with better teachers have high test scores regardless of whether they receive the experimental treatment). Thus we cluster SE at classroom level to account for this aspect of the experiment.

